#summary Basic ROS System Installation

= Introduction =

We use ROS fuerte on a Ubuntu 12.04 machine. To be able to make the most of the workshop you should set it up like described. You can also use a virtual machine, but this might not work well with some of the ROS visualization tools.

= Details =

== ROS Setup ==

 * ROS needs to be installed. Very detailed instructions for that are available [http://www.ros.org/wiki/fuerte/Installation/Ubuntu here]. Choose the "ros-fuerte-desktop-full" install if you have the disk space and bandwidth available to do so.
 * After installation, open a new terminal and try to use a ROS command:
{{{
roscd
}}}
 If this complains about "ROS_WORKSPACE", the installation worked.
 * Install additional useful packages:
{{{
sudo apt-get install ros-fuerte-rqt ros-fuerte-pr2-simulator
}}}


== Repository Setup ==

 * To use some existing software, we need to check out software from different repositories. These are:
  * [http://tu-darmstadt-ros-pkg.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ tu darmstadt ros pkg] (svn)
  * The repository belonging to this workshop [http://irrw2012.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ irrw2012] (svn)
 * We use a quick manual setup of repositories (a rosinstall based method could also be used)
  * Enter your '/opt' directory and create a new 'repositories' directory:
{{{
cd /opt
sudo mkdir repositories
}}}
  * Change the user rights so you have full access:
{{{
sudo chown $USER repositories
}}}
  * Check out the used repositories:
{{{
cd repositories
svn co https://irrw2012.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ irrw2012
svn co https://tu-darmstadt-ros-pkg.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ tu-darmstadt-ros-pkg
}}}
  * Add the 'repositories' directory to the ROS_PACKAGE_PATH, so ROS "knows it". This is done by adding a line to your '~/.bashrc' file:
{{{
echo export ROS_PACKAGE_PATH=/opt/repositories:\$ROS_PACKAGE_PATH >> ~/.bashrc
}}}
  * Open a new terminal and try building hector_mapping:
{{{
rosmake hector_mapping
}}}

== Updating Repositories ==
 * Use this line to update both repositories to the most recent state:
{{{
svn up /opt/repositories/irrw2012/ /opt/repositories/tu-darmstadt-ros-pkg/
}}}